COURSE_SCHEDULE.md, before:

# Course Schedule

Expect changes in dates and topics as the course will change to meet our needs as they develop.

* **Activities** lists the general activities for the day in the context of the topics.
* **HW** (i.e. homework) is the thinking or activities to be done in preparation for the following day(s), and 
* **PB** (i.e. process book) are some prompts to consider in documenting your process.

 Denotes a coding topic, roughly speaking.

## PHASE 1. Basic Skills, Fundamental Concepts, Research

### Week 1.   Welcome, we are a design office 

***Objectives:** Get us up and running as a design office. Cover the logistics and necessary course details. Kickoff the project.*

**8/26 M  Day 1** Introductions - who are we and what is this class about?, Course logistics

> * **Activities**: Apples-to-Apples; Get to know our collective skills
> * **HW**: Write your bio and brainstorm ideas for our office “self representations”

**8/27 TU  Day 2** What will we be doing? - Collaboration, Project Management, Process documentation; Course Progression, Topics, Schedule;

> *  What is an iPad technically speaking?; What is an app?;
> * **Activities**:
    * Office “photos”;
    * Start using tools;
    * Review downloaded apps
> * **HW**: Download an app and evaluate your experience
> * **PB**:
    * What are your personal values?
    * How do you feel about the introduction of this technology? Fears? Desires? Unknowns?

**8/28 W**  No class meeting

**8/29 TH  Day 3** Project Kickoff! Ethics; Goals; Constraints; What are our assumptions?

> * **Activities**: 
    * Discuss HW; 
    * Discuss what ethics means in the context of the iPad and greater technology trends;
    * Discuss project goals; 
    * Defining ‘Iolani and Community - 5Ws & H;
    * What is unique about the Sullivan Center?;
    * Mind-maps;
    * Brainstorming
> * **HW/PB**: Consider your personal experience at ‘Iolani. 
    * What are some of your pet peeves?
    * What are some things you love?
    * Have a discussion about this with someone else (family, friend, faculty, etc.).
    * What did you learn from the exchange? about them? about you? about the topics?

**8/30 F  Day 4** What are our opportunities? - identify areas of interest; Project scope 

> * **Activities**: SWOT analysis; Mind-maps; Brainstorming; 1 and 2 axes
> * **HW/PB**: Choose three areas of interest and be ready to share why

---

### Week 2.  Design is about people 

***Objective:** Introduction to research in the context of business and design considerations*

**9/2 M** No class meeting

**9/3 TU  Day 5** What are our directions (who/what)? Stakeholders? Survey writing

> * **Activities**: Share out HW; Select a direction for further research; Stakeholder analysis; Create surveys and identify whom to survey
> * **HW**: Complete surveys and submit via email for review
> * **PB**: What are your thoughts, opinions, emotions on selecting a direction?

**9/4 W  Day 6** Ethnographic methods - observe, listen, and ask questions

> * **Activities**: Walk around campus, take notes & photos 
> * **HW/PB** : Think about whom you might want to observe/interview; continue field research; Any new insights?

**9/5 TH  Day 7** Competitive analysis - what are others doing? 

> * **Activities**: Web research
> * **HW/PB**: Continue research activities; Any new insights?

**9/6 F  Day 8** Interview guidelines

> * **Activities**: Identify whom to observe/interview; Write interviews (submit via email by Sunday night)
> * **HW**: Finish writing interview; Continue general research activities
> * **PB**: What do you hope to learn from the interview? Hypotheses?

---

### Week 3.  Be inspired. Begin to see relationships.

***Objectives:** Continue with deeper research. Synthesize findings to date. Begin looking for inspiration and start ideation in solution space. Introduce basic coding concepts.*

**9/9 M  Day 9** Who do we want to be our audience?

> * **Activities**: Review research; Affinity map; Brainstorming
> * **HW**: Review feedback on interview and revise if necessary.
> * **PB**: What are some insights? Possible concepts/solutions?

**9/10 TU  Day 10** Communicating research findings - Themes, Patterns, Insights

> * **Activities**: Research inspiration board; Brainstorming
> * **HW**: Arrange for an interview (complete interview by 9/18)
> * **PB**: What are you inspired by thus far?

**9/11 W  Day 11**  Find more inspiration, local, regional, world trends/events;

> *  Core iOS coding concepts - Storyboards, View Controllers, Views
> * **Activities**: Periodical reading; Add to inspiration board/brainstorming
> * **HW**: Find one thing from your reading that may be relevant.
> * **PB**: Has the reading inspired anything new?

**9/12 TH  Day 12**  

> *  Core coding concepts - Git
> * **Activities**: Share out; Add to boards; Group discussion on mental models
> * **HW**: How would you explain Git? Come up with a metaphor, model, etc.
> * **PB**: Has learning about the coding concepts opened new perspectives?

**9/13 F  Day 13**  Mental models; Vision Statements

> * **Activities**: Share out (Git models)
> * **HW**: Finish up interviews (due 9/18)
> * **PB**: How do the mental models influence your thinking? your understanding? How do you want to see the future of ‘Iolani?

## *First half of PHASE 1 complete*

### Week 4.  Become a futurist. Envision a positive future.

***Objectives:** Extract design implications and begin to clarify solution space. Introduce basic programming concepts.*

**9/16 M  Day 14   Core coding concepts - Objects**

> * **Activities**: 3D prototyping of mental models
> * **HW**: Finish up interviews (due 9/18)
> * **PB**: Checkpoint: how is this process going for you?

**9/17 TU  No class meeting**

**9/18 W  Day 15  Close-out research activities - What are we improving?**

> * **Activities**: Share out interview key insights; Brainstorming 
> * **HW/PB**: Possible concepts/solutions?

**9/19 TH  Day 16  Personas - a better picture of our audience; Use Cases**

> * **Activities**: Create personas as team; Brainstorming
> * **HW/PB**: Continue working on personas

**9/20 F  Day 17  Vision Statements - what are our goals for the solution?**

> * **Activities**: Mind-map solution space; Create vision statements 
> * **HW/PB**: Finish vision statements and personas

---

### Week 5.  Ideas are cheap. Feel free to play with them roughly.

***Objectives:** Start of ideation phase. Explore the user’s experience of the potential solution spaces and consider appropriateness of interventions. Start Objective-C programming. Choose roles.*

***Note that there are two columns for activities or homework to indicate role differences.***

**9/23  Day 18  Design and development roles; Group brainstorming guidelines; Logistics**

> * **Activities**: Checkpoint: where are we in our process. Get organized.
> * **HW/PB**: What do you want your role to be? Be ready to choose.

9/24  Day 19  Critiques - how to give and receive constructive feedback; Storyboarding; Task Analysis; 

> * **Activities**: Telestrations; Practice critiquing
> | Tables        | Are           | Cool  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
| col 3 is      | right-aligned | $1600 |


| Tables        | Are           | Cool  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
| col 3 is      | right-aligned | $1600 |
| col 2 is      | centered      |   $12 |
| zebra stripes | are neat      |    $1 |

Commit message:

Another test table, but with real data.

COURSE_SCHEDULE.md, after:

# Course Schedule

Expect changes in dates and topics as the course will change to meet our needs as they develop.

* **Activities** lists the general activities for the day in the context of the topics.
* **HW** (i.e. homework) is the thinking or activities to be done in preparation for the following day(s), and 
* **PB** (i.e. process book) are some prompts to consider in documenting your process.

 Denotes a coding topic, roughly speaking.

## PHASE 1. Basic Skills, Fundamental Concepts, Research

### Week 1.   Welcome, we are a design office 

***Objectives:** Get us up and running as a design office. Cover the logistics and necessary course details. Kickoff the project.*

**8/26 M  Day 1** Introductions - who are we and what is this class about?, Course logistics

> * **Activities**: Apples-to-Apples; Get to know our collective skills
> * **HW**: Write your bio and brainstorm ideas for our office “self representations”

**8/27 TU  Day 2** What will we be doing? - Collaboration, Project Management, Process documentation; Course Progression, Topics, Schedule;

> *  What is an iPad technically speaking?; What is an app?;
> * **Activities**:
    * Office “photos”;
    * Start using tools;
    * Review downloaded apps
> * **HW**: Download an app and evaluate your experience
> * **PB**:
    * What are your personal values?
    * How do you feel about the introduction of this technology? Fears? Desires? Unknowns?

**8/28 W**  No class meeting

**8/29 TH  Day 3** Project Kickoff! Ethics; Goals; Constraints; What are our assumptions?

> * **Activities**: 
    * Discuss HW; 
    * Discuss what ethics means in the context of the iPad and greater technology trends;
    * Discuss project goals; 
    * Defining ‘Iolani and Community - 5Ws & H;
    * What is unique about the Sullivan Center?;
    * Mind-maps;
    * Brainstorming
> * **HW/PB**: Consider your personal experience at ‘Iolani. 
    * What are some of your pet peeves?
    * What are some things you love?
    * Have a discussion about this with someone else (family, friend, faculty, etc.).
    * What did you learn from the exchange? about them? about you? about the topics?

**8/30 F  Day 4** What are our opportunities? - identify areas of interest; Project scope 

> * **Activities**: SWOT analysis; Mind-maps; Brainstorming; 1 and 2 axes
> * **HW/PB**: Choose three areas of interest and be ready to share why

---

### Week 2.  Design is about people 

***Objective:** Introduction to research in the context of business and design considerations*

**9/2 M** No class meeting

**9/3 TU  Day 5** What are our directions (who/what)? Stakeholders? Survey writing

> * **Activities**: Share out HW; Select a direction for further research; Stakeholder analysis; Create surveys and identify whom to survey
> * **HW**: Complete surveys and submit via email for review
> * **PB**: What are your thoughts, opinions, emotions on selecting a direction?

**9/4 W  Day 6** Ethnographic methods - observe, listen, and ask questions

> * **Activities**: Walk around campus, take notes & photos 
> * **HW/PB** : Think about whom you might want to observe/interview; continue field research; Any new insights?

**9/5 TH  Day 7** Competitive analysis - what are others doing? 

> * **Activities**: Web research
> * **HW/PB**: Continue research activities; Any new insights?

**9/6 F  Day 8** Interview guidelines

> * **Activities**: Identify whom to observe/interview; Write interviews (submit via email by Sunday night)
> * **HW**: Finish writing interview; Continue general research activities
> * **PB**: What do you hope to learn from the interview? Hypotheses?

---

### Week 3.  Be inspired. Begin to see relationships.

***Objectives:** Continue with deeper research. Synthesize findings to date. Begin looking for inspiration and start ideation in solution space. Introduce basic coding concepts.*

**9/9 M  Day 9** Who do we want to be our audience?

> * **Activities**: Review research; Affinity map; Brainstorming
> * **HW**: Review feedback on interview and revise if necessary.
> * **PB**: What are some insights? Possible concepts/solutions?

**9/10 TU  Day 10** Communicating research findings - Themes, Patterns, Insights

> * **Activities**: Research inspiration board; Brainstorming
> * **HW**: Arrange for an interview (complete interview by 9/18)
> * **PB**: What are you inspired by thus far?

**9/11 W  Day 11**  Find more inspiration, local, regional, world trends/events;

> *  Core iOS coding concepts - Storyboards, View Controllers, Views
> * **Activities**: Periodical reading; Add to inspiration board/brainstorming
> * **HW**: Find one thing from your reading that may be relevant.
> * **PB**: Has the reading inspired anything new?

**9/12 TH  Day 12**  

> *  Core coding concepts - Git
> * **Activities**: Share out; Add to boards; Group discussion on mental models
> * **HW**: How would you explain Git? Come up with a metaphor, model, etc.
> * **PB**: Has learning about the coding concepts opened new perspectives?

**9/13 F  Day 13**  Mental models; Vision Statements

> * **Activities**: Share out (Git models)
> * **HW**: Finish up interviews (due 9/18)
> * **PB**: How do the mental models influence your thinking? your understanding? How do you want to see the future of ‘Iolani?

## *First half of PHASE 1 complete*

### Week 4.  Become a futurist. Envision a positive future.

***Objectives:** Extract design implications and begin to clarify solution space. Introduce basic programming concepts.*

**9/16 M  Day 14   Core coding concepts - Objects**

> * **Activities**: 3D prototyping of mental models
> * **HW**: Finish up interviews (due 9/18)
> * **PB**: Checkpoint: how is this process going for you?

**9/17 TU  No class meeting**

**9/18 W  Day 15  Close-out research activities - What are we improving?**

> * **Activities**: Share out interview key insights; Brainstorming 
> * **HW/PB**: Possible concepts/solutions?

**9/19 TH  Day 16  Personas - a better picture of our audience; Use Cases**

> * **Activities**: Create personas as team; Brainstorming
> * **HW/PB**: Continue working on personas

**9/20 F  Day 17  Vision Statements - what are our goals for the solution?**

> * **Activities**: Mind-map solution space; Create vision statements 
> * **HW/PB**: Finish vision statements and personas

---

### Week 5.  Ideas are cheap. Feel free to play with them roughly.

***Objectives:** Start of ideation phase. Explore the user’s experience of the potential solution spaces and consider appropriateness of interventions. Start Objective-C programming. Choose roles.*

***Note that there are two tracks (Design and Dev) for activities and homework to indicate role differences.***

**9/23  Day 18  Design and development roles; Group brainstorming guidelines; Logistics**

> * **Activities**: Checkpoint: where are we in our process. Get organized.
> * **HW/PB**: What do you want your role to be? Be ready to choose.

9/24  Day 19  Critiques - how to give and receive constructive feedback; Storyboarding; Task Analysis; 

> * **Activities**: Telestrations; Practice critiquing

> **Design**

> * **HW/PB**: What is the current experience? How can you tell the story of the user (emotion)? Draw/write something that will help to trigger your own emotional connection to our users and their experience

> **Dev**

> * **HW/PB**: What are the content and context that shape the experience? Limitations of current process? of data? 

||Design|Dev|
|:-------:|-|-|
|**HW/PB**|What is the current experience? How can you tell the story of the user (emotion)? Draw/write something that will help to trigger your own emotional connection to our users and their experience|What are the content and context that shape the experience? Limitations of current process? of data?|



| Tables        | Are           | Cool  |
| ------------- |:-------------:| -----:|
| col 3 is      | right-aligned | $1600 |
| col 2 is      | centered      |   $12 |
| zebra stripes | are neat      |    $1 |
