README.md, before:

Fall 2013: Lesson Plan
==================

‘Iolani School, Sullivan Center's iPad App Design &amp; Development course lesson plan for Fall semester of 2013.

## Course Description
The course takes students through a full design and development process with the release of an iPad app that serves the school community as the final course project deliverable. Work will be team-based and activity-oriented.

## Instructors

* Cara Oba coba@iolani.org
* Kyle Oba koba@iolani.org

Please contact us if you plan on being absent, are unable to participate, or wish to discuss something. Email is preferred.

## Purpose and Organization

The purpose of the course is to provide real-world experience in a variety of aspects including the design and development process, skill acquisition, concept application, to participating in a collaborative work environment. As such, you will either be working together as a class or in smaller groups of three to five individuals.

The course will be structured around the following:

1. in-class instruction
2. in-class activities
3. discussion of readings/activities (review of “homework” or in-class activities)
4. active work time
5. presentations
6. critiques

## Course Objectives

Through this real-world project, the course aims to:

1. empower students to engage themselves in real-world opportunities to which they will apply creative, analytical, and critical thinking skills;
2. provide a process framework that can be applied to designing and developing any product;
3. simulate a real-world design studio and software development shop context;
4. increase their experience with general project management;
5. encourage self-management and leadership;
6. promote proficiency in collaboration and communication skills;
7. increase students’ sense of agency in skill acquisition;
8. provide working knowledge of some basic research, design, and programming concepts and tools; and
9. deliver a tangible end-product that both the students and the school can showcase.

## Assessments

This course uses assessments to help increase individual self-awareness and assess student performance potential. The framework for the rubric(s) are based on meeting Sullivan Center's learning objectives, and the Partnership for 21st Century Skills’ framework. There will be no quizzes, or tests. Assignments will not be graded except in the larger context of the final project deliverables and participation. 

As this is a semester long course, assessments will be based on the following items and on the following schedule. The project schedule may shift and the dates may change accordingly.

* Oct 24, 2013  40% Participation (Qtr 1)
* Dec 10, 2013  20% Final App and Presentation
* Dec 19, 2013  20% Process Book (in lieu of Final)*
* Jan 15, 2014  20% Participation (Qtr 2)

*The process book documents your personal process and project experience. It will include your activities, decisions, thought processes, and artifacts of your process, among other things. Its purpose is to incite self-reflection, awareness, and retrospection both during the project and at its completion.

## Project Scope

Fortunately, the sky is not the limit for the scope of this project. That’s a good thing, because it allows you to focus your efforts and tackle something manageable. The following criteria are guidelines for determining reasonable project scope. The selected projects should:

1. have a clearly defined audience;
2. require minimal content creation (should utilize already available and static content, should require limited processing of data, or might utilize user generated content);
3. have low maintenance requirements or clearly identifiable owner; and
4. have features built-around existing user behaviors and processes.

Depending on how we feel as a class, we may do as few as one and as many as three projects. 

## Optional Reading

### Design

#### Research

* [10 Things Designers Should Know About People](http://nothingsacredgames.com/?p=930)

#### Practices

* [Deprivation Testing at GitHub](http://www.fastcolabs.com/3010972/open-company/how-github-uses-deprivation-testing-to-hone-product-design)
* [iOS Design Starter Guide](http://taybenlor.com/2013/05/21/designing-for-ios.html)
* [iOS7 and Almost-Flat Design](https://medium.com/thoughts-and-words/5ccef7b3e1fc)

#### Creativity

* [Creative People Say "No"](https://medium.com/thoughts-on-creativity/bad7c34842a2)
* [Daily Rituals of Creative People](http://www.fastcocreate.com/1682913/from-beethoven-to-woody-allen-the-daily-rituals-of-the-worlds-most-creative-people-and-what-)
* [Against Creativity](https://medium.com/thoughts-on-creativity/efb8b5976bd7)

#### Process

* [Process Technique](http://www.sharesomecandy.com/process_techique_main.html)
* [Process Technique: Continued](http://www.sharesomecandy.com/process_technique_pearson_maron.html)

### Development

* [The effects of sitting](http://www.hermanmiller.com/content/hermanmiller/northamerica/en_us/home/research/solution-essays/sitting-can-be-good-for-the-circulatory-system.html)

### Collaboration

* [How successful virtual teams collaborate](http://blogs.hbr.org/cs/2012/10/how_to_collaborate_in_a_virtua.html)
* [Coworking, Swarming, and the Agile Workplace](http://www.hermanmiller.com/content/hermanmiller/northamerica/en_us/home/research/research-summaries/coworking-swarming-and-the-agile-workplace.html)

### Product

* [You need an MVP](http://jury.me/blog/2013/3/30/mvp)

### Workspace

* [How innovation can thrive on campus](http://www.hermanmiller.com/content/hermanmiller/northamerica/en_us/home/research/research-summaries/how-innovation-can-thrive-on-campus.html)

## Want to help edit this document?

You can submit a pull request.

If you want to learn how to write Markdown (the syntax) used for this web page, check out these links:
* [Markdown Syntax](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax), by Daring Fireball
* [GitHub Flavored Markdown](https://help.github.com/articles/github-flavored-markdown) - some extras for GitHub

## License

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="http://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/3.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License</a>.

Commit message:

Add stub for course schedule.

README.md, after:

Fall 2013: Lesson Plan
==================

‘Iolani School, Sullivan Center's iPad App Design &amp; Development course lesson plan for Fall semester of 2013.

## Course Description
The course takes students through a full design and development process with the release of an iPad app that serves the school community as the final course project deliverable. Work will be team-based and activity-oriented.

## Instructors

* Cara Oba coba@iolani.org
* Kyle Oba koba@iolani.org

Please contact us if you plan on being absent, are unable to participate, or wish to discuss something. Email is preferred.

## Purpose and Organization

The purpose of the course is to provide real-world experience in a variety of aspects including the design and development process, skill acquisition, concept application, to participating in a collaborative work environment. As such, you will either be working together as a class or in smaller groups of three to five individuals.

The course will be structured around the following:

1. in-class instruction
2. in-class activities
3. discussion of readings/activities (review of “homework” or in-class activities)
4. active work time
5. presentations
6. critiques

## Course Objectives

Through this real-world project, the course aims to:

1. empower students to engage themselves in real-world opportunities to which they will apply creative, analytical, and critical thinking skills;
2. provide a process framework that can be applied to designing and developing any product;
3. simulate a real-world design studio and software development shop context;
4. increase their experience with general project management;
5. encourage self-management and leadership;
6. promote proficiency in collaboration and communication skills;
7. increase students’ sense of agency in skill acquisition;
8. provide working knowledge of some basic research, design, and programming concepts and tools; and
9. deliver a tangible end-product that both the students and the school can showcase.

## Assessments

This course uses assessments to help increase individual self-awareness and assess student performance potential. The framework for the rubric(s) are based on meeting Sullivan Center's learning objectives, and the Partnership for 21st Century Skills’ framework. There will be no quizzes, or tests. Assignments will not be graded except in the larger context of the final project deliverables and participation. 

As this is a semester long course, assessments will be based on the following items and on the following schedule. The project schedule may shift and the dates may change accordingly.

* Oct 24, 2013  40% Participation (Qtr 1)
* Dec 10, 2013  20% Final App and Presentation
* Dec 19, 2013  20% Process Book (in lieu of Final)*
* Jan 15, 2014  20% Participation (Qtr 2)

*The process book documents your personal process and project experience. It will include your activities, decisions, thought processes, and artifacts of your process, among other things. Its purpose is to incite self-reflection, awareness, and retrospection both during the project and at its completion.

## Project Scope

Fortunately, the sky is not the limit for the scope of this project. That’s a good thing, because it allows you to focus your efforts and tackle something manageable. The following criteria are guidelines for determining reasonable project scope. The selected projects should:

1. have a clearly defined audience;
2. require minimal content creation (should utilize already available and static content, should require limited processing of data, or might utilize user generated content);
3. have low maintenance requirements or clearly identifiable owner; and
4. have features built-around existing user behaviors and processes.

Depending on how we feel as a class, we may do as few as one and as many as three projects. 

## Optional Reading

### Design

#### Research

* [10 Things Designers Should Know About People](http://nothingsacredgames.com/?p=930)

#### Practices

* [Deprivation Testing at GitHub](http://www.fastcolabs.com/3010972/open-company/how-github-uses-deprivation-testing-to-hone-product-design)
* [iOS Design Starter Guide](http://taybenlor.com/2013/05/21/designing-for-ios.html)
* [iOS7 and Almost-Flat Design](https://medium.com/thoughts-and-words/5ccef7b3e1fc)

#### Creativity

* [Creative People Say "No"](https://medium.com/thoughts-on-creativity/bad7c34842a2)
* [Daily Rituals of Creative People](http://www.fastcocreate.com/1682913/from-beethoven-to-woody-allen-the-daily-rituals-of-the-worlds-most-creative-people-and-what-)
* [Against Creativity](https://medium.com/thoughts-on-creativity/efb8b5976bd7)

#### Process

* [Process Technique](http://www.sharesomecandy.com/process_techique_main.html)
* [Process Technique: Continued](http://www.sharesomecandy.com/process_technique_pearson_maron.html)

### Development

* [The effects of sitting](http://www.hermanmiller.com/content/hermanmiller/northamerica/en_us/home/research/solution-essays/sitting-can-be-good-for-the-circulatory-system.html)

### Collaboration

* [How successful virtual teams collaborate](http://blogs.hbr.org/cs/2012/10/how_to_collaborate_in_a_virtua.html)
* [Coworking, Swarming, and the Agile Workplace](http://www.hermanmiller.com/content/hermanmiller/northamerica/en_us/home/research/research-summaries/coworking-swarming-and-the-agile-workplace.html)

### Product

* [You need an MVP](http://jury.me/blog/2013/3/30/mvp)

### Workspace

* [How innovation can thrive on campus](http://www.hermanmiller.com/content/hermanmiller/northamerica/en_us/home/research/research-summaries/how-innovation-can-thrive-on-campus.html)

### Inspiration

* [Jobs on changing things](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kYfNvmF0Bqw&feature=youtu.be&t=9s)

## Course Schedule

Expect changes in dates and topics as the course will change to meet our needs as they develop.
“Activities” lists the general activities for the day in the context of the topics. “HW” (i.e. homework) is the thinking or activities to be done in preparation for the following day(s) and “PB” (i.e. process book) are some prompts to consider in documenting your process.

 Denotes a coding topic, roughly speaking.

## Want to help edit this document?

You can submit a pull request.

If you want to learn how to write Markdown (the syntax) used for this web page, check out these links:
* [Markdown Syntax](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax), by Daring Fireball
* [GitHub Flavored Markdown](https://help.github.com/articles/github-flavored-markdown) - some extras for GitHub

## License

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="http://i.creativecommons.org/l/by-sa/3.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/">Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License</a>.
